### Bacillaria Psychophysics: the information processing of collective movement.

#### Introduction
While the diatom Bacillaria does not have a nervous system, it does exhibit organized behaviors and collective movement. Bacillaria consists of a series of filaments arrayed in parallel. 


#### Models of Movement
Evaluate a series of models that explain movement (pick from the 20 or so models that Dick presented from his new paper).  

* physical models, molecular models, functional models (review several different models and their plausibility).

All act as a driver of behavior: movement through the water column. Consists of individual filament behaviors and collective behaviors consisting of coordinated filament movements.  

__Hypothesis:__ movement of the Bacillaria colony is driven by information processing, which is neuronal in scope. 


#### Neuronal regulation:

Hebbian learning (elements that wire together, fire together).

* each filament in the colony exhibits sliding motion. This sliding motion is coupled by neighboring filaments. 

* results in a rhythmic oscillation that occurs at multiple timescales (similar to a central pattern generator).

* entrainment over time (synchronization of filaments).

__Hypothesis:__ can we distinguish between real neuronal behavior and neuronal behavior not produced by a brain?

* some seemingly neuronal behavior is generated by muscle fibers and electrical activity. 

Develop a Turing test for distinguishing neuronal-generated from non-neuronal-generated behavior.

* specifically, neuronal behavior from non-neuronal systems. Similar in principle to the dilemma of fake vs. real life-like behavior.

Examples: Fake Life Recognition Contest (Alife 2019), Simulated vs. real movement in Geppetto vs. _C. elegans_.
